_includes/rules.md, before:


##Contents
1. [Background](#background)
2. [The Board](#the_board)
    1. [Tiles](#tiles)
    2. [Setup](#setup)
3. [The Units](#the_units)
    1. [Rabble](#rabble)
    2. [Spearmen](#spearmen)
    3. [Crossbowmen](#crossbowmen)
    4. [Light Horse](#light_horse)
    5. [Heavy Horse](#heavy_horse)
    6. [Trebuchet](#trebuchet)
    7. [Catapault](#catapault)
    8. [Elephant](#elephant)
    9. [Dragon](#dragon)
    10. [King](#king)
4.  [Rules of Battle](#rules_of_battle)
    1. [Movement](#movement)
    2. [Combat](#combat)
4.  [End Game](#end_game)
5.  [Notes](#notes)


##Background
Cyvasse is a game from Old Volantis oft mentioned in the book series [_A Song of Ice and Fire_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Song_of_Ice_and_Fire). Played by lords, ladies, and commoners in the east. It has developed quite a following and has been used for everything from a good wager to teaching wisdom to the young.

## The Board
The board consists of an 8 by 8 play area. Each half, referred to as a homeland, is an area of 8 by 4 and is separated at the start of the game by a screen providing sufficient cover so as each player cannot see the other's homeland.
During this phase each receives their tiles and may construct their homeland by placing tiles according the each of the tile's attributes and considerations as defined below.
### Tiles
Mountains x 6 (carnelian, reddish-brown)
  : This tile is impassable to all units except Dragons.
    Ranged units may attack Dragons that are on mountain tiles but they cannot attack through one.
    Players may not exceed two mountains per row. This prevents mountains from being build into impassible walls.

Water x 5 (lapis lazuli, blue)
  : Water stops a unit's movement once they enter it.
That unit can not be moved next turn and must wait until that turn is passed before it moves again.
Tebuchets, Catapaults, Crossbowmen can not attack while they are in this tile.

Forest x 6 (jade, dark green)
  : A forest tile diminishes a unit's maximum range by one upon entering it. For example: If a light horse, which has a range of three, enters a forest on it's first move, it may now only move one more space.

Grass x 14 (jade, green)
  : Grass does not hinder hinder or improve any unit's abilities.

Fortress x 1
  : A fortress is a tile that provides an occupying unit salvation. If a unit is occupying a fortress and is attacked and would normally be taken, it is instead left in play and the fortress is 'ruined' in it's stead. A ruined fortress cannot be used again in this manner.


##The Units
There are 10 pieces, each with their own unique abilities. Each player receives one of each at the start of the game to place where they wish inside of their homeland.
All units can kill a unit of their same type or lower, and the one above it. The list below has the weakest units at the top progressing to the strongest.

Rabble
  : Rabble can move one space at a time.
  
Spearmen
  : The Light Horse can move one space at a time.
    It cannot be taken by cavalry when defending.
  
Crossbowman
  : The Crossbowman can move one space at a time and can attack in a 1 block radius.
    Crossbowmen are capable of killing dragons.
  
Light Horse
  : The Light Horse can move three spaces at a time.

Heavy Horse
  : The Heavy Horse can move two spaces at a time.

Elephant
  : The Elephant can move one space at a time.

Catapult
  : The catapult can move one space at a time and can attack in a 2 block radius.
    The catapult is capable of killing dragons.

Trebuchet
  : The trebuchet can move one space at a time and can attack in a 3 block line in the direction it was last moving.
  The trebuchet is capable of killing dragons.

Dragon
  : The dragon is capable of traversing all tiles with no penalty. It can move the entire length of the board and is only blocked by the enemy dragon.
  It can roost on mountains, but it cannot attack units that inhabit forests.
  
King
  : The king can kill any other unit and move one space.

##Rules of Battle

###Movement
Pieces move and attack at the same time similar to chess. When moving you count how many spaces you have moved. This can translate into straight, diagonal or turning movements on the board. This applies to all units with the exception of the dragon which must move in straight horizontal/vertical/diagonal paths. Enemy units may block your path and need to be removed in order to continue.

###Combat
Units are taken by one player from another by skillful maneuvers across the field. An attack ends movement for that turn. Players may attack their own units.

####Melee
Melee units attack other units by moving into and occupying the space of the other piece, which is then destroyed. When a piece is engage in melee all movement is stopped for the remainder of that turn.

####Ranged
Ranged units (Crossbowmen, Catapults, Trebuchet) do not have to move to attack but can target and remove appropriate units that are in their range.


##End Game
The game ends when one player's king is killed.

##Notes
These rules are a work in progress. Based on several mentions, descriptions, and transactions in George R.R. Martin's excellent series. I've tried to construct a game that matches the story and makes for an interesting/deep/dynamic board game.

Commit message:

Added thanks and links to the project page.

_includes/rules.md, after:


##Contents
1. [Background](#background)
2. [The Board](#the_board)
    1. [Tiles](#tiles)
    2. [Setup](#setup)
3. [The Units](#the_units)
    1. [Rabble](#rabble)
    2. [Spearmen](#spearmen)
    3. [Crossbowmen](#crossbowmen)
    4. [Light Horse](#light_horse)
    5. [Heavy Horse](#heavy_horse)
    6. [Trebuchet](#trebuchet)
    7. [Catapault](#catapault)
    8. [Elephant](#elephant)
    9. [Dragon](#dragon)
    10. [King](#king)
4.  [Rules of Battle](#rules_of_battle)
    1. [Movement](#movement)
    2. [Combat](#combat)
4.  [End Game](#end_game)
5.  [Notes](#notes)


##Background
Cyvasse is a game from Old Volantis oft mentioned in the book series [_A Song of Ice and Fire_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Song_of_Ice_and_Fire). Played by lords, ladies, and commoners in the east. It has developed quite a following and has been used for everything from a good wager to teaching wisdom to the young.

## The Board
The board consists of an 8 by 8 play area. Each half, referred to as a homeland, is an area of 8 by 4 and is separated at the start of the game by a screen providing sufficient cover so as each player cannot see the other's homeland.
During this phase each receives their tiles and may construct their homeland by placing tiles according the each of the tile's attributes and considerations as defined below.
### Tiles
Mountains x 6 (carnelian, reddish-brown)
  : This tile is impassable to all units except Dragons.
    Ranged units may attack Dragons that are on mountain tiles but they cannot attack through one.
    Players may not exceed two mountains per row. This prevents mountains from being build into impassible walls.

Water x 5 (lapis lazuli, blue)
  : Water stops a unit's movement once they enter it.
That unit can not be moved next turn and must wait until that turn is passed before it moves again.
Tebuchets, Catapaults, Crossbowmen can not attack while they are in this tile.

Forest x 6 (jade, dark green)
  : A forest tile diminishes a unit's maximum range by one upon entering it. For example: If a light horse, which has a range of three, enters a forest on it's first move, it may now only move one more space.

Grass x 14 (jade, green)
  : Grass does not hinder or improve any unit's abilities.

Fortress x 1
  : A fortress is a tile that provides an occupying unit salvation. If a unit is occupying a fortress and is attacked and would normally be taken, it is instead left in play and the fortress is 'ruined' in it's stead. A ruined fortress cannot be used again in this manner.


##The Units
There are 10 pieces, each with their own unique abilities. Each player receives one of each at the start of the game to place where they wish inside of their homeland.
All units can kill a unit of their same type or lower, and the one above it. The list below has the weakest units at the top progressing to the strongest.

Rabble
  : Rabble can move one space at a time.
  
Spearmen
  : The Light Horse can move one space at a time.
    It cannot be taken by cavalry when defending.
  
Crossbowman
  : The Crossbowman can move one space at a time and can attack in a 1 block radius.
    Crossbowmen are capable of killing dragons.
  
Light Horse
  : The Light Horse can move three spaces at a time.

Heavy Horse
  : The Heavy Horse can move two spaces at a time.

Elephant
  : The Elephant can move one space at a time.

Catapult
  : The catapult can move one space at a time and can attack in a 2 block radius.
    The catapult is capable of killing dragons.

Trebuchet
  : The trebuchet can move one space at a time and can attack in a 3 block line in the direction it was last moving.
  The trebuchet is capable of killing dragons.

Dragon
  : The dragon is capable of traversing all tiles with no penalty. It can move the entire length of the board and is only blocked by the enemy dragon.
  It can roost on mountains, but it cannot attack units that inhabit forests.
  
King
  : The king can kill any other unit and move one space.

##Rules of Battle

###Movement
Pieces move and attack at the same time similar to chess. When moving you count how many spaces you have moved. This can translate into straight, diagonal or turning movements on the board. This applies to all units with the exception of the dragon which must move in straight horizontal/vertical/diagonal paths. Enemy units may block your path and need to be removed in order to continue.

###Combat
Units are taken by one player from another by skillful maneuvers across the field. An attack ends movement for that turn. Players may attack their own units.

####Melee
Melee units attack other units by moving into and occupying the space of the other piece, which is then destroyed. When a piece is engage in melee all movement is stopped for the remainder of that turn.

####Ranged
Ranged units (Crossbowmen, Catapults, Trebuchet) do not have to move to attack but can target and remove appropriate units that are in their range.


##End Game
The game ends when one player's king is killed.

##Notes
These rules are a work in progress. Based on several mentions, descriptions, and transactions in George R.R. Martin's excellent series. I've tried to construct a game that matches the story and makes for an interesting/deep/dynamic board game.

Thanks to Mr. Martin for creating an amazing world and spinning tremendous fiction. I've spent more than a decade enjoying your work.

Please file suggestions/issues here on [github](https://github.com/dylan/gameofcyvasse/issues), or fork and improve the [repo]([github](https://github.com/dylan/gameofcyvasse).
